Now let's combine this knowledge
with what we just covered in
the previous chapter, and
that is an indexed access type.
So what I've done here,
and I apologize that
the tooltip is kind of adding
a big gap in the code,
but this is just one type here, right?
What we're doing here is we wanna
grab a portion of the window
API as in the global that's
available in a browser.
And when do I do this?
Well, especially if I'm writing code and
I expect to make my tests nice and
easy through dependency injection,
I kinda want to limit myself to
accessing only certain things on Window.
So that I make sure that if I
have to stub them in tests, or
maybe if this is a single page app
that I have to server render, well,
there in the node world I might
have to stub like polyfill some
Windowish things so
that the thing renders properly.
But I wanna give myself sort
of a explicit boundary so
I know whenever I cross it.
I can show you after we go through this
a more real world example involving
Chrome extensions and
their Chrome extension API's.
So great.
So we have,
we gonna call this part of Window and
what we want is to grab only, we want
something that looks like Window but
it only has a couple
things that can be found.
So we're saying we're looping
over these three things.
So it's sort of almost like
four each of these three,
key is gonna be these
sort of one at a time.
And now we're using an indexed
access type, right?
So key is first gonna be document.
So we're using Window[document], and
we're gonna get this document type.
And then the same thing for navigator,
and then the same thing for
set timeout, right?
Here's the callback, and
then here's the timeout number, and
then here are the the arguments
that are passed to the function.
People, this is a rarely
used aspect of set timeout.
But ultimately,
we get a subset of Windows,
we get a portion of it,
only these keys that we're interested in.
So again we're gonna make this
a little bit more generalized by
pulling hard coded things
out into typeparams.
So the first thing we'll pull out is,
we wanna pull out the keys, right?
So that's this list of things here.
So now we've got like Key in Keys,
and that's a typeparam up here.
And note that we're saying,
Keys extends Key of window.
Why do I want this, well pop out to
the playground just so we can see it for
ourselves.
What if I did this?
I would wanna be told, sorry, it's a pipe.
I would wanna be told that zzz it's not
a thing that could be found on Window,
it's not found on Key of Window, Right?
A deliberate spelling error.
If I took this away.
Well the error would pop
up in a different place.
But now I'm being told hey, hey, hey,
you can't just use Key as an index access
type here, how do I know that that
stuff's gonna be found on Window?
You could say hey it's a string,
but so the first error is Keys,
it could be a promise it could be
a function, there's no constraint on Keys.
I can't use that in a match type cuz can
only use things that are like property
keys, right?
This is a core constraint of map types.
It's about a property Key and
looping over them.
So even if I solve that by saying,
It's a string,
now this piece is gonna say, well,
how do I know that these are things
that I can get off of Window.
It could be an arbitrary string.
So that's why we have this in place
just kinda makes everything work.
It's not only a valid property key but
it's the subset of all
allowable property keys in JavaScript
that will work with Window.
And now, theme coming back, right?
The error is popping up at the location
where I apply my fix because I
have misspelled this, and
now things start to pass.
So that's why you can see
kinda how if we relax this,
things will start to get
angry in various places.
This has to be a valid property key and
hen this has to be a valid
property key for Window.
But we can get the same result out now,
right?
So we had part of Window, this was
hard coded for these three properties.
So we made something here
called PickWindowProperties,
that's the more generalized thing,
and then we can leverage that.
So this is the general solution up here.
We can get our specific solution back by
saying, I wanna pick things off of Window,
and here are the names of
the properties that I wish to pick.
Let's generalize it one step
further by abstracting Window away.
So we're gonna get rid of this and
pull it out to a typeparam.
So what we've done here, instead of
calling it pickWindowProperties,
we're just calling it PickProperties.
And just as before we have
these Keys that come in,
I've actually moved it to the second type
parameter, up here was the first, right?
I mean, it was the only one but
it's in the second position now.
So we have a valueType and
then we have Keys,
where these are Keys that
are found on this valueType.
And I'm using this map type here.
So previously we were seeing
what Window[Key], and
now we're seeing ValueType[Key].
And we're still able to get
our specific result here.
Because we're parsing in Window, this
is the thing we're plucking properties
off of, and these are the names of
the things that we're kinda peeling off.
Let's open this in the playground.
So I don't wanna talk about why I
ordered these typeparams in this way.
If I tried to reverse them,
I might run into a problem,
actually does this work now?
That would be pretty cool.
Wow they fixed this.
All right, well, you'll still see
stuff written the other way and
I can kinda explain
the rationale behind it.
Just poking at it making sure,
something's not right here.
Let's see, I need the comma and
then I think it'll work.
Yep, okay, so
it seems like this has been relaxed.
But previously,
you kinda had to state upfront.
If I wanted to use
ValueType in an argument,
we first had to state the typeparam
has to exist first, and
then we can refer to it as
a constraint for another typeparam.
But it appears that recently they've
relaxed this, which is kind of cool.
That would let us build this API signature
the way that we want, and in this case,
just in terms of how you could read this
out loud, I kinda like like this better.
So I want to pick the properties document,
navigators, setTimeout,
setInterval from Window.
And I like that rather than saying I want
to pick the following things from Window,
here are the properties that I want.
You have both options
available to you now.
All right, Tristin asks a good question,
in fact you've asked it twice and
you've been very patient.
So mapped types do they extend from
dictionary, and since mapped types
are a subset of a dictionary that
extends word is still strange to me.
So I would encourage you to think
about this in terms of set theory.
So if you imagine all of the dictionaries
that could be in the universe.
So things like this, right?
All of these with all
the possible property keys and
all the possible ValueTypes.
Some of them, [LAUGH] Some of
them will be full of stuff,
some of them will only have
a couple property Keys.
When we talk about something that
is more constrained than this,
more specific than this,
we would say that it extends from this.
So when we talk about mapped types kind of
extend from their dictionary equivalents,
you can think of it as, Dictionaries
are more flexible than mapped types.
So if I had, Or
well, say this is a dictionary,
Of dates, So it starts at empty.
And then this will be, A index signature.
And this is gonna require
that I do a new date.
Start of week is a new date.
And I'll get rid of this
little side panel here.
Okay, so just looking at this code here,
I would say that this
dictionary is more flexible and
more general than this type here, why?
This has no opinion about which
Keys dates are stored under.
This one does have an opinion.
So if I change these to let declarations,
This is gonna be a problem.
Because we can't, when we say I have
a slot that's designed for a record,
what guarantee do we have that end
of week and start of week are here?
We don't have that guarantee.
Whereas in the other direction,
Totally fine, why?
The dictionary is ready to handle
start of week, end of week,
start of year, end of year,
whatever you want.
So that's,
we see a Key insight here that records,
these records are more
specific than dictionaries.
And when we talk about this extends word
that's used in type parameter constraints,
and in these conditional type conditions,
the meaning of extends is,
Something like this.
We're saying is T, are all values
that we could possibly have for
T, to all of those satisfy
what is described by date.
And date could have many others
that don't satisfy T, but
does everything in the set
that could be a possible T?
Does all of that fit into date?
So really we're saying,
is T a specialized flavor of date?
Is it a more specific version of date?
It's a really tricky conceptual thing to
get over, so I would encourage you if
you're still having trouble with this,
please ask more questions.
Please keep kind of poking at this because
it's one of these big lightbulbs that
when it turns on, things become much more
clear pretty broadly across the language.
So now that we've generalized
this let's look at what we have.
We have a mapped type where we
take two typeparams here, right?
So we take a value that we're plucking
things off of this previously was Window.
And then we have some
union type potentially,
that is one or more Keys that
are found on this ValueType.
And we're iterating over those Keys,
and we're plucking the values off and
this is what we get.